# Usage of Leslie Model and Non-negative Least Squares in prediction of population growth
Course project for Linear Algebra, the main idea of which is to use the Leslie model concepts to predict the number of individuals in the population of cattle in the next year, having the data about their population in previous years.

When we started working on the LA project we decided to choose the topic about prediction as it seems really important and interesting for our team. As a result of our work we see the application which can be used for prediction of multiple kinds of species having only the number of their individuals by age groups in previous generation. This implies the opportunity to understand population growth and use it for multiple needs: predict, manage and monitor the processes which are directly related to the human or animal population itself. 

Leslie matrix is the LA technique, which is used in ecology to model the changes in some populations of organisms over a period of time. For construction of a discrete, age-structured model of population growth we needed several measures: fertility rates and survival probabilities for each age group. Finding survival probabilities is not such a big deal as finding fertility rates: we can do this by solving one equation with data from one year to another. But fertility rates are not so simple: we have decided that it is an even better reason to implement our own function, that will approximate fertility rate better that the ones from the libraries. Simultaneously we are solving  the problem of constrained least squares with additional conditions (e.g solution has to be non-negative) and using its results in the Leslie model.

Due to Leslie concepts the population is divided and grouped/categorized into discrete time intervals. For example, the age class of 2-year-old individuals consists of ones that just had their second birthday, plus those who are 2.5 years and so on till 3 years old. Besides, all organisms in a particular age group are assumed to be equal with respect to their birth and death rates. These classes are represented by a vector with an element for each age class representing the number of individuals belonging to it. In addition, here only one sex is considered – usually female. 

The number of individuals in the population at time n + 1 (number we want to predict) depends on the number of individuals of each age class in the population at time n, and the birth and survival probabilities. Survival probability represents how many organisms survive from age class n to age class n+1. But organisms need not only to survive but live as long as it is needed to become mature enough to breed. That is why we also need to calculate the fertility rates in the way described earlier (using Least Squares Solution).

The Leslie matrix is a square matrix with a number of columns and rows corresponding to the number of elements in the population vector we have constructed above. The (i,j)th cell in the matrix shows how many individuals will be in the age class i at the next time step for each individual in stage j. To find a population vector for time step n+1 we need to take the population vector at step n and multiply it by the Leslie matrix. About the structure of the Leslie matrix: the top row consists of just fertility rates, in the sub-diagonal we have survival probabilities, all other entries are 0.
